README.md, before:

# DATA3406 - Group 4 (Thurs 12B): 'Deadliness' of COVID-19 (Global and Country-Based)

This project is an inspection of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its perceived deadliness across the world. Analysis will be both from a holistic, global perspective, as well as close examination of certain countries and how they have been impacted by COVID-19.

Our analysis will also consider potential uncertainty present in the data provided.

The source of the data will be from *Our World in Data* (https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus)

## HOW - Table of contents

* [Driving Question](#driving-question)
* [Background](#background)
* [Data Origin](#data-origin)
* [Data Definitions](#data-definitions)
* [Ethics](#ethics)
* [Checklist](#checklist)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Group Details](#group-details)


Driving Question
---------

The driving question of our analysis is *How Deadly is COVID-19?* We will be examining the 'deadliness' of COVID-19 both from a global perspective, as well as a select few countries and examining their responses to managing the virus.

We will also be accounting for the uncertainty that might be prevalent within the data sources, and we will be making sure to mention these when producing data visualisations.

Background
---------

The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious respiratory disease that has impacted the world substantially. It has been classified as a global pandemic by the *World Health Organisation* (WHO), and has sparked countries across the world to develop management and prevention strategies such as lockdowns and extensive social distancing practices.

To date, 

Data Origin 
---------

Our COVID-19 dataSet, *‘owid-covid-data.csv’*, is a snapshot of the data from the ‘Our World in Data’ [github repository](https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data) taken on **15 October 2020**. The data on the ‘Our World in Data’ repository is updated daily and includes features such as confirmed cases, confirmed deaths, COVID-19 testing, and other possible points of interest.

Our dataset has the following features: `iso_code`, `continent`, `location`, `date`, `total_cases`, `new_cases`, `new_cases_smoothed`, `total_deaths`, `new_deaths`, `new_deaths_smoothed`, `total_cases_per_million`, `new_cases_per_million`, `new_cases_smoothed_per_million`, `total_deaths_per_million`, `new_deaths_per_million`, `new_deaths_smoothed_per_million`, `total_tests`, `new_tests`, `new_tests_smoothed`, `total_tests_per_thousand`, `new_tests_per_thousand`, `new_tests_smoothed_per_thousand`, `tests_per_case`, `positive_rate`, `tests_units`, `stringency_index`, `population`, `population_density`, `median_age`, `aged_65_older`, `aged_70_older`, `gdp_per_capita`, `extreme_poverty`, `cardiovasc_death_rate`, `diabetes_prevalence`, `female_smokers`, `male_smokers`, `handwashing_facilities`, `hospital_beds_per_thousand`, `life_expectancy`, `human_development_index`.

Data Definitions
---------

Group Meeting Minutes - Minutes folder
Each group meeting minutes is stored in the Minutes folder with the format, Week#_Meeting_Minutes.pdf. Each document contains the agenda for the week and the following meeting. It also records the action items and division of work among group members for the following week. Additionally, it discusses the key points we learned from each member’s individual analysis.

Process Notebooks
Each group member has their own Jupyter notebook containing the data exploration for their respective part. These process notebooks are updated regularly and stored in the Process Notebooks folder.

Ethics
---------

Checklist
---------
- [x] **GitHub Access**  
Add collaborators, and teaching staff to the project
- [ ] **Ethics**
If your project needed Ethics approval, mention the approval and the conditions that are particularly relevant to the repository. This can for example include the people that have access (I hope your repository is set to private, otherwise you are in trouble), the hosting location, anonymisation or others.
- [x] **Data origin**
- [ ] **Time stamps**  
Although GitHub has time stamps, it can be useful to include dates. For example say *'as of 20/10/2020 these papers were published in relation to the project'*. This is important information for when a README is updated, because a date supplies a starting point for additions.
- [ ] **Project owners**  
Include contact information for at least two people that are in charge of the project and repository. Include the the organisation (University, Faculty, School) and an email address. For groups, include the roles (manager, tracker...) and details of all team members
- [ ] **Folder naming**  
- [ ] **Folder structure**  

* **data_raw** (our favorite oxymoron. Keep your original files separate from the rest)
* **data_engineered** (files of data that are a result of your cleaning/modelling/analysis belong here)
* **code_r** (for all your R scripts, you may want to separate **practice code** and **product code**)
* **vis** (for visualizations if need)

Contributing
---------
(assuming you are currently on your local repository directory)
1. `$git pull` - pull the latest changes **(ALWAYS DO THIS FIRST)** 
2. Make your changes to the folder, either by adding a new file, or overwriting an existing file. 
3. `$git add .` - for add all changes or ‘$git add hello.ipynb’ - for a specific file.
4. `$git commit -m “Your commit comments here." `
5. `$git push` - push your commits to the repository.

If you thought you had made a mistake, you can simly reset your commit by using the command,
   * `$git reset --soft HEAD~1` to reset it back by 1 commit 
      * use `--soft` if you simply wanted to restructure your message.
      * use `--hard` if you want to completely remove the changes. 
   * `$git reset --hard 0abcd1d` resets to a specific commit based on the commit code.
   
 For more commands see the [Git cheatsheet](https://github.sydney.edu.au/awon6941/DATA3406_Group4/blob/master/assests/SWTM-2088_Atlassian-Git-Cheatsheet.pdf) by Atlissian.  

Group Details
---------

### Member Details 

| Full Name       | Preferred Name | SID       | Email                      | Phone     |
|-----------------|----------------|-----------|----------------------------|-----------|
| Samantha Chew   | Samantha       | 480380926 | sche4003@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0426262512|
| Alex Wong       | Alex           | 470066919 | awon6941@uni.sydney.edu.au | +65 96629875|
| Andrew Auwyang  | Andrew         | 480377616 | aauw2900@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0433120386|
| Voon Ken Ren    | Ken            | 480219084 | kvoo2843@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0450752249|
| Lou Irish Gonzales | Lou         | 480378255 | lgon9610@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0426203696|

### Roles

|    Week     |  Tracker |  Manager |  Editor | GitHub Manager |  Tester and Checklist  |
| :---------: | :------: | :------: | :-----: | :------------: | :--------------------: |
|      8      |    Lou   |   Alex   |   Sam   |       Ken      |                Andrew  |
|      9      |  Andrew  |    Lou   |  Alex   |       Sam      |                   Ken  |
|     10      |    Ken   |  Andrew  |   Lou   |      Alex      |                   Sam  |
|     11      |    Sam   |    Ken   |  Andrew |       Lou      |                  Alex  |
|     12      |    Alex  |    Sam   |   Ken   |     Andrew     |                   Lou  |

### Meeting Times Outside Class 
* Monday 8:30pm 

### Tools
* Github
* Google Drive 
* Jupyter Notebooks/Google Collab

Commit message:

data origin and license included

README.md, after:

# DATA3406 - Group 4 (Thurs 12B): 'Deadliness' of COVID-19 (Global and Country-Based)

This project is an inspection of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its perceived deadliness across the world. Analysis will be both from a holistic, global perspective, as well as close examination of certain countries and how they have been impacted by COVID-19.

Our analysis will also consider potential uncertainty present in the data provided.

The source of the data will be from *Our World in Data* (https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus)

## HOW - Table of contents

* [Driving Question](#driving-question)
* [Background](#background)
* [Data Origin](#data-origin)
* [Data Definitions](#data-definitions)
* [Ethics](#ethics)
* [Checklist](#checklist)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Group Details](#group-details)


Driving Question
---------

The driving question of our analysis is *How Deadly is COVID-19?* We will be examining the 'deadliness' of COVID-19 both from a global perspective, as well as a select few countries and examining their responses to managing the virus.

We will also be accounting for the uncertainty that might be prevalent within the data sources, and we will be making sure to mention these when producing data visualisations.

Background
---------

The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious respiratory disease that has impacted the world substantially. It has been classified as a global pandemic by the *World Health Organisation* (WHO), and has sparked countries across the world to develop management and prevention strategies such as lockdowns and extensive social distancing practices.

To date, 

Data Origin 
---------

Our COVID-19 dataSet, *‘owid-covid-data.csv’*, is a snapshot of the data from the *‘Our World in Data’* [github repository](https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data) taken on **15 October 2020**. The data in the repository is open access under the [Creative Commons BY license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) and is updated daily. It is made up of a collection of sources, namely the [European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)](https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications-data/download-todays-data-geographic-distribution-covid-19-cases-worldwide ), official testing reports, United Nations, World Bank, etc. More details are provided in their [codebook](https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/blob/master/public/data/owid-covid-codebook.csv).

Our dataset has the following features: `iso_code`, `continent`, `location`, `date`, `total_cases`, `new_cases`, `new_cases_smoothed`, `total_deaths`, `new_deaths`, `new_deaths_smoothed`, `total_cases_per_million`, `new_cases_per_million`, `new_cases_smoothed_per_million`, `total_deaths_per_million`, `new_deaths_per_million`, `new_deaths_smoothed_per_million`, `total_tests`, `new_tests`, `new_tests_smoothed`, `total_tests_per_thousand`, `new_tests_per_thousand`, `new_tests_smoothed_per_thousand`, `tests_per_case`, `positive_rate`, `tests_units`, `stringency_index`, `population`, `population_density`, `median_age`, `aged_65_older`, `aged_70_older`, `gdp_per_capita`, `extreme_poverty`, `cardiovasc_death_rate`, `diabetes_prevalence`, `female_smokers`, `male_smokers`, `handwashing_facilities`, `hospital_beds_per_thousand`, `life_expectancy`, `human_development_index`.

Data Definitions
---------

Group Meeting Minutes - Minutes folder
Each group meeting minutes is stored in the Minutes folder with the format, Week#_Meeting_Minutes.pdf. Each document contains the agenda for the week and the following meeting. It also records the action items and division of work among group members for the following week. Additionally, it discusses the key points we learned from each member’s individual analysis.

Process Notebooks
Each group member has their own Jupyter notebook containing the data exploration for their respective part. These process notebooks are updated regularly and stored in the Process Notebooks folder.

Ethics
---------

Checklist
---------
- [x] **GitHub Access**  
Add collaborators, and teaching staff to the project
- [ ] **Ethics**
If your project needed Ethics approval, mention the approval and the conditions that are particularly relevant to the repository. This can for example include the people that have access (I hope your repository is set to private, otherwise you are in trouble), the hosting location, anonymisation or others.
- [x] **Data origin**
- [ ] **Time stamps**  
Although GitHub has time stamps, it can be useful to include dates. For example say *'as of 20/10/2020 these papers were published in relation to the project'*. This is important information for when a README is updated, because a date supplies a starting point for additions.
- [ ] **Project owners**  
Include contact information for at least two people that are in charge of the project and repository. Include the the organisation (University, Faculty, School) and an email address. For groups, include the roles (manager, tracker...) and details of all team members
- [ ] **Folder naming**  
- [ ] **Folder structure**  

* **data_raw** (our favorite oxymoron. Keep your original files separate from the rest)
* **data_engineered** (files of data that are a result of your cleaning/modelling/analysis belong here)
* **code_r** (for all your R scripts, you may want to separate **practice code** and **product code**)
* **vis** (for visualizations if need)

Contributing
---------
(assuming you are currently on your local repository directory)
1. `$git pull` - pull the latest changes **(ALWAYS DO THIS FIRST)** 
2. Make your changes to the folder, either by adding a new file, or overwriting an existing file. 
3. `$git add .` - for add all changes or ‘$git add hello.ipynb’ - for a specific file.
4. `$git commit -m “Your commit comments here." `
5. `$git push` - push your commits to the repository.

If you thought you had made a mistake, you can simly reset your commit by using the command,
   * `$git reset --soft HEAD~1` to reset it back by 1 commit 
      * use `--soft` if you simply wanted to restructure your message.
      * use `--hard` if you want to completely remove the changes. 
   * `$git reset --hard 0abcd1d` resets to a specific commit based on the commit code.
   
 For more commands see the [Git cheatsheet](https://github.sydney.edu.au/awon6941/DATA3406_Group4/blob/master/assests/SWTM-2088_Atlassian-Git-Cheatsheet.pdf) by Atlissian.  

Group Details
---------

### Member Details 

| Full Name       | Preferred Name | SID       | Email                      | Phone     |
|-----------------|----------------|-----------|----------------------------|-----------|
| Samantha Chew   | Samantha       | 480380926 | sche4003@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0426262512|
| Alex Wong       | Alex           | 470066919 | awon6941@uni.sydney.edu.au | +65 96629875|
| Andrew Auwyang  | Andrew         | 480377616 | aauw2900@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0433120386|
| Voon Ken Ren    | Ken            | 480219084 | kvoo2843@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0450752249|
| Lou Irish Gonzales | Lou         | 480378255 | lgon9610@uni.sydney.edu.au | 0426203696|

### Roles

|    Week     |  Tracker |  Manager |  Editor | GitHub Manager |  Tester and Checklist  |
| :---------: | :------: | :------: | :-----: | :------------: | :--------------------: |
|      8      |    Lou   |   Alex   |   Sam   |       Ken      |                Andrew  |
|      9      |  Andrew  |    Lou   |  Alex   |       Sam      |                   Ken  |
|     10      |    Ken   |  Andrew  |   Lou   |      Alex      |                   Sam  |
|     11      |    Sam   |    Ken   |  Andrew |       Lou      |                  Alex  |
|     12      |    Alex  |    Sam   |   Ken   |     Andrew     |                   Lou  |

### Meeting Times Outside Class 
* Monday 8:30pm 

### Tools
* Github
* Google Drive 
* Jupyter Notebooks/Google Collab
